---
layout:     post                    # 使用的布局（不需要改）
title:     .NET 反射类    # 标题 
subtitle:   反射专场 #副标题
date:       2020-07-31             # 时间
author:     Peter                      # 作者
header-img: img/post-bg-2015.jpg    #这篇文章标题背景图片
catalog: true                       # 是否归档
tags:                               #标签
    - .NET
    
---

## Reflection 概述

在.NET中Reflection主要有` System.Reflection`  ` System.Type`两个库。使用Reflection，我们可以在运行时创建type instances实例.  

一般地，Application domains由 common language runtime(CLR)管理。  

Assemblies->modules->types->members. Reflection可以获得assemblies, modules, and types。  

典型的Reflection应用场景如下：  

+ Use `Assembly` to define and load assemblies, load modules that are listed in the assembly manifest, and locate a type from this assembly and create an instance of it.

+ Use `Module` to discover information such as the assembly that contains the module and the classes in the module. You can also get all global methods or other specific, nonglobal methods defined on the module.

+ Use `ConstructorInfo` to discover information such as the name, parameters, access modifiers (such as public or private), and implementation details (such as abstract or virtual) of a constructor. Use the GetConstructors or GetConstructor method of a Type to invoke a specific constructor.

+ Use `MethodInfo` to discover information such as the name, return type, parameters, access modifiers (such as public or private), and implementation details (such as abstract or virtual) of a method. Use the GetMethods or GetMethod method of a Type to invoke a specific method.

+ Use `FieldInfo` to discover information such as the name, access modifiers (such as public or private) and implementation details (such as static) of a field, and to get or set field values.

+ Use `EventInfo` to discover information such as the name, event-handler data type, custom attributes, declaring type, and reflected type of an event, and to add or remove event handlers.

+ Use `PropertyInfo` to discover information such as the name, data type, declaring type, reflected type, and read-only or writable status of a property, and to get or set property values.

+ Use `ParameterInfo` to discover information such as a parameter's name, data type, whether a parameter is an input or output parameter, and the position of the parameter in a method signature.

+ Use `CustomAttributeData` to discover information about custom attributes when you are working in the reflection-only context of an application domain. CustomAttributeData allows you to examine attributes without creating instances of them.

## Common Language Runtime 概述

.NET中的运行时叫做CLR。我们使用C# VB等managed code编译生成的代码供给给CLR使用。  

### metadata

为了能让CLR识别我们的managed code, 编译器必须提供metadata，其中描述了代码中的 types, members, and references。  

## 反射中的`Type`








## Application domains

在Window系统中application存在于不同的进程中，实现了天然的隔离。Application domains的引入则实现了应用之间的security, reliability, and versioning隔离。  

一般的，Application domains 由 runtime hosts，即ASP.NET等，用户不会手动创建。  

### 创建一个Application domain

```
using System;
using System.Reflection;

class AppDomain1
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Creating new AppDomain.");
        AppDomain domain = AppDomain.CreateDomain("MyDomain");

        Console.WriteLine("Host domain: " + AppDomain.CurrentDomain.FriendlyName);
        Console.WriteLine("child domain: " + domain.FriendlyName);
    }
}
``` 

### 在Application domain中加载assembly

最推荐的方式还是使用` System.Reflection.Assembly.Load()`：  

```
using System;
using System.Reflection;

public class Asmload0
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        // Use the file name to load the assembly into the current
        // application domain.
        Assembly a = Assembly.Load("example");
        // Get the type to use.
        Type myType = a.GetType("Example");
        // Get the method to call.
        MethodInfo myMethod = myType.GetMethod("MethodA");
        // Create an instance.
        object obj = Activator.CreateInstance(myType);
        // Execute the method.
        myMethod.Invoke(obj, null);
    }
}
```

## `System.Runtime.Activator.CreateInstance`

`Activator.CreateInstance`用来在运行时动态的传入参数，创建同一个assembly中给定的instance.  

```

```  


## Reference

1. [Application domains](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/app-domains/application-domains)
2. [Reflection in .NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/reflection-and-codedom/reflection)
